---
draft: false
title: "Change By Design - Tim Brown - Book Notes"
snippet: "Book notes"
publishDate: "2023-08-15 15:39"
category: ""
author: "Vinayak Arora"
tags: [reading, books]
---
- Designers end with the product, Design Thinkers design the product itself. They make an experience which is sold to the customer rather than just a product.
- Design thinking is fundamentally an exploratory process; done right, it will invariably make unexpected discoveries along the way, and it would be foolish not to find out where they lead. Often these discoveries can be integrated into the ongoing process without disruption. At other times  the discovery will motivate the team to revisit some of its most basic assumptions
- Without constraints design cannot happen. Constraints can be best visualized in terms of three overlapping criteria for successful ideas: feasibility, what is functionally possible within the foreseeable future; viability, what is likely to become part of a sustainable business model; and desirability, what makes sense to people and for people
- A competent designer will resolve each of these three constraints, but a design thinker will bring them into a harmonious balance.
- Designers then, have learned to excel at resolving one or another or even all three of these constraints. Design Thinkers, by contrast, are learning to navigate between and among them in creative ways. They do so because they have shifted their thinking from problem to project.
- The project is the vehicle that carries an idea from concept to reality. A design project is not open-ended and ongoing. It has a beginning, a middle, and an end, and it is precisely these restrictions that anchor it to the real world.
- The classic starting point of any project is the brief. Almost like a scientific hypothesis, the brief is a set of mental constraints that gives the project team a framework from which to begin, benchmarks by which they can measure progress, and a set of objectives to be realized: price point, available technology, market segment, and so on.
- A creative organization is always on the lookout for people with capacity and -just as important- the disposition for collaboration across disciplines. In the end, the ability is what distinguishes the merely multidisciplinary team from a truly interdisciplinary one. In a multidisciplinary team each individual becomes an advocate for his or her own technical specialty and the project becomes a protracted negotiation among them, likely resulting in a gray compromise. In an interdisciplinary team there is collective ownership of ideas and everybody takes responsibility for them. The usual effect of group think is to suppress people's creativity. Design thinking by contrast, seeks to liberate it. When a team of talented, optimistic, and collaborative design thinkers comes together, a chemical change occurs that can lead to unpredictable actions and reactions. To reach this point, however, we have learned that we must channel this energy productively, and one way to achieve this is to do away with one large team in favor of many small ones. Our goal should be to create interdependent networks of small teams.
- For design thinking, what is prerequisite is an environment-social but also spatial- in which people know they can experiment, take risks, and explore the full range of their faculties. It does little good to identify the brightest T-shaped people around, assemble them in interdisciplinary team, and network them to other teams if they are forced to work in an environment that dooms their efforts from the start. A culture that believes that it is better to ask forgiveness afterward rather than permission before, that rewards people for success but gives them permission to fail, has removed one of the main obstacles to the formation of new ideas.
- Design thinking is embodied thinking - embodied in the teams and projects, to be sure, but embodied in the physical spaces of innovation as well.
- A well-curated project space, augmented by a project Web site or wiki to help keep team members in touch when they are out in the field,. can significantly improve the productivity of a team by supporting better collaboration among its members and better communication with outside partners and clients.
- Design thinking needs to be moved "upstream", closer to the executive suites where strategic decisions are made, it is to important to be left the the designers. The next generation of designers will need to be as comfortable in the boardrooms as they are in the studio or the shop, and they will need to begin looking at every problem -from adult literacy to global warming- as a design problem.
- Insight is one of the key sources of design thinking, and it does not usually come from reams of quantitative data that measures exactly what we already have and tell us what we already know. The basic problem is that people are so ingenious at adapting to inconvenient situations that they are often not even aware that they are doing so. Rarely will everyday people who are the consumers of our products, the customers of our services, the occupants of our buildings, or the users of our digital interfaces tell us what to do. Their actual behaviour, however, can provide us with invaluable clues about their range of unmet needs. Accordingly, almost every project we undertake involves an intensive period of observation. We watch what people do (and do not do) and listen to what they say (and do not say). This takes some practice.
- If we focus on the center of the bell curve, we are likely to find insights which we are already aware of, rather than learning something new and surprising. For insights at that level we need to head for the edges, the places where we expect to find "extreme" users who live differently, think differently, and consume differently.
- The mission of design thinking is to translate observations into insights and insights into products and services that will improve lives. Empathy is the mental habit that moves us beyond thinking of people are lab rats or standard deviations. We build these bridges of insight through empathy, the effort to see the world through the eyes of others, understand the world through their experiences, and feel the world through their emotions. Spending time to understand a culture can open up new innovation opportunities. This may help us to discover universal solutions that have relevance beyond our own culture, but they will always have their origins in empathy.
- It's not about "us vs them" or even "us on behalf of them". For the design thinker, it has to be "as with them".
- It is far from unusual for a project brief to contain seemingly conflicting goals- low cost and high quality. There may be a tendency, under such circumstances, to simplify the process and reduce it to a set of specifications or a list of features. To do so is almost invariably to compromise the integrity of the product on the altar of convenience.
- In an org which encourages experimentation, there will be projects destined to go nowhere and still others that the keepers of institutional memory prefer not to talk about. But to view such initiatives as "wasteful," "inefficient," or "redundant" may be a symptom of a culture focused on efficiency over innovation and a company at risk of collapsing into a downward spiral of incrementalism.
- We need a judicious blend of bottom-up experimentation and guidance from above. The rules for this approach are.
  -- The best ideas emerge when the whole org ecosystem-not just its designers and engineers and certainly not just management-has room to experiment  
  -- Those most exposed to changing externalities (new tech, shifting consumer base, strategic threats or opportunities) are the ones best placed to respond and most motivated to do so.  
  -- Ideas should not be favored based on who creates them.   
  -- Ideas that create a buzz should be favored. Indeed, ideas should gain a vocal following, however small before being given organizational support.  
  -- The "gardening" skills of senior leadership should be used to tend, prune, and harvest ideas. MBAs call this "risk tolerance". I call it the top-down hit.  
  -- The overarching purpose should be articulated so that the organization has a sense of direction and innovators don't feel the need for constant supervision.  
- "Defer judgement, Encourage wild ideas Stay focused on topic." The most important of them is "build on the ideas of others". It ensures every participant is invested in the last idea put forward and has the change to move it along.
- Brainstorming is not the ultimate technique for idea generation, and it cannot be build into the structure of every org. But it does prove worth when the goal is to open up a broad spectrum of ideas. Other approaches are important for making choices but nothing beats a good brain storming session for creating them.
- Our task is not to understand what is going on in our brains but to find ways of getting that thinking out into the world, where it can be shared with others and, ultimately, translated into concrete strategies.
- Prototyping generates results faster. Early prototypes should be fast, rough and cheap. The greater the investment in an idea, the more committed one becomes to it. Over investment in a refined prototype has two undesirable consequences. First, a mediocre idea may go too far toward realization or even, in the worst case, all the way. Second, the prototyping process itself creates the opportunity to discover new and better ideas at minimal cost.
- Product designers can use cheap and easy to manipulate materials: cardboard, surfboard form, wood, and even objects and materials they find lying around- anything they can glue or tape or stable together to create a physics approximation of ideas.
- the goal of prototyping is not to create a working model. It is to give form to an idea to learn about its strengths and weaknesses and to identify new directions for the next generation of more detailed, more refined prototypes.
- Just enough prototyping means picking what we want to learn about and achieving just enough resolution to make that the focus. An experience prototyper knows when to say "Enough is enough".
- When it comes to organizations, constant change is inevitable and everything is a prototype. At the most challenging times we remind ourselves that a successful prototype is not one that works flawlessly; it is one that teaches us something-about our objectives, our process, and ourselves.
- Protoyping is always inspirational, not in the sense of a perfected artwork but just the opposite: because it inspires new ideas.
- Designers may require a fully equipped model shop, but design thinkers can "build' prototypes in the cafeteria, a boardroom, or a hotel suite.
- In the third space of innovation we are concerned with implementation: communication an idea with sufficient clarity to gain acceptance a cross the org, proving it, and showing that it will work in its intended market.
- Design has the power to enrich our lives by engaging our emotions through image, form, texture, color, sound and smell. The intrinsically human-centered nature of design thinking points to the next step: we can use our empathy and understanding of people to design experiences that create opportunities for active engagement  and participation.
- Creating an experience culture requires going beyond the generic to design experiences perceived as uniquely tailored to each customer. Unlike a manufactured product or a standardized service, an experience comes to life when it feels personalized and customized.
- Where brands are build on the delivery of great experience,s is that transforming the culture of an org is every bit as important as designing the lobby or the curbside service, Empowering employees to seize opportunities when and where they seem them and giving them the tools to create unscripted experiences is an essential element of that transformation. Rather than delivering a set of instructions created for them by a bunch of designers somewhere, we encourage them to become design thinkers themselves. With an idea to become an experience, it must be implemented with the same care in which it is conceived.
- There is almost no trick in the design thinkers' tool kit more enjoyable to observe or more productive of results than a "design challenge". This exercise takes the form of a structured competition in which rival team attack a single problem. A single team usually comes out on top, but the collective energy and intelligence they mobilize ensure that everybody wins.
- Story telling needs to be in the toolkit of the design thinker-in the sense not of a tidy beginning, middle and end but of an ongoing, open-ended narrative that engages people and encourages them to carry it forward and write they own conclusions. Allowing customers to write the last chapter of the story themselves is only one more example of design thinking in action.
- New offerings to existing users is to extend (evolutionary), new offerings to new users is to create (revolutionary, existing offerings to existing users is to manage (incremental) and existing offerings to new users is to adapt (evolutionary). A revolutionary innovation creates entirely new markets, but this is rare.
- A company's best defense is to diversify its portfolio by investing across all four quadrants of the innovation matrix.
- It is not unrealistic to ask junior marketing executives and senior research scientists from the same org to join forces and think beyond their respective disciplines.
- Innovation needs to be coded into the DNA of a company if it is to have large-scale, long-term impact.
- If it does better job of understanding its customers, it will do a better job of satisfying their needs. That is simply the most reliable source of long-term profitability and sustainable growth. In the world of business, every idea-however noble- must survive the test of the bottom line.
- It is no longer possible to think in adversarial terms of a "buyers market" or a "seller's market." We're all in this together.
- Technology alone does not necessarily result in a better customer experience. Service companies that use innovative technology but do not innovate to improve the quality of people's experience are destined to relearn the bitter lesson of the companies of the industrial age: that past innovation is no garantee of future performance.
- Design is about delivering a satisfying experience. Design thinking is about creating a multipolar experience in which everyone has the opportunity to participate in the conversation.
- Designers can't prevent people from doing what they want to with products they own, but that does not excuse them from ignoring the larger system. Often, in our enthusiasm for solving the problem in front of us, we fail to see the problem that we create. Designers, and people who aspire to think like designers, are in a position to make important decisions about resources society uses and where they end up.  There are three significant areas where design thinkers can induce the "massive change". The first has to do with informing ourselves about what is a  and making visible the true costs of the choices we make. The second involves a fundamental reassessment of the systems and processes we use to create new things. The third task to which design thinking must respond is to find ways to encourage individuals to move toward more sustainable behaviors.
- Businesses that focus solely on bumping up their market share by a few tenths of a percentage point miss significant opportunities to change the rules of the game, and nonprofit orgs that go it alone may be denying themselves access to the human and technical resources necessary to create sustainable, systematic long-term change. Fortune can be found at the "bottom of the pyramid" by companies that dare to approach the world's poorest citizens not as suppliers of cheap labor or recipients of their charitable largesse but rather as partners in creative entrepreneurship.
- Starting with humans increases the likelihood of developing a breakthrough idea and finding a receptive market. Reams of market data is no substitute for getting out into the real world.
- Leaders should encourage experimentation and accept that there is nothing wrong with failure as long as it happens early and becomes a source of learning.
- A vibrant design culture with encourage prototyping-quick, cheap and dirty-as part of the creative process and not just as a way of validating finished ideas. A promising prototype will generate a buzz among members of the design team, who will become enthusiastic advocates as it becomes a candidate for funding and support. The real test of a prototype is out in the real world where it can be experienced by its intended customer base. Prototypes need to be testable, they do not need to be physical.
- The majority of your efforts will take place in the incremental zone, but without exploring more revolutionary ideas you risk being blindsided by unexpected competition. The downside: you may see fewer of these projects going to market. The upside: those that do are likely to have a lasting impact. The creative leader must also be willing to support the search for more breakthrough ideas from the top, whether this means introducing a new line of office furniture or a new primary school curriculum.
- Rather than sabotage your most creative asset, be prepared to rethink funding schedules as projects unfold according to their own internal logic and teams learn more about the opportunities before them.
- Good design thinkers observe. Great design thinkers observe the ordinary. make it a rule that at least once a day you will stop and think about an ordinary situation. Record your observations and ideas visually, even if just as a rough sketch in a notebook or a picture in your phone.