---
draft: false
title: "The Infinte Game - Simon Senek - Book Notes"
snippet: "Book notes"
publishDate: "2023-07-23 15:39"
category: ""
author: "Vinayak Arora"
tags: [reading, books]
---
- We do not choose which game to play. We do not choose how it is played. The only thing we choose is how we play it. Business is not a finite game, there is no "winning" against the competition by making a better product, there  is only playing. Corporations will go on to outlive the people who run them, it is important to keep breaking barriers, finding new things, instead of "winning". There is no "winning" in an infinite game like business. They think "winning" is having higher market share, higher profit margins etc. Finite Minded leaders build companies around these principles, if something bad happens they start down sizing, reducing r&d, having mass layoffs, this can keep the employees in a mindset of self preservation which often leads to more mistakes. Infinite minded leaders on the contrary build companies which are resilient rather than stable. Stable companies are stable, stable profits, stable performance, not improving performance or growth. Also finite mindedness of a few executives at the top can spread to the entire corporate. Resilient companies on the other hand can weather the storm very well with the excess cash kept from high profit times.  Infinite minded leaders also create a culture where employees and management want to contribute to the growth (not in the traditional sense) of the company.  Infinite minded leaders invest in Research and Development, when a new disrupting technology arrives, they are able to see its benefits and adapt according to it rather than ignoring it.
- An infinite game is not for a short victory, it is meant to be played forever, for which we need multiple things
  1.  A Just Cause
  2.  Building trusting teams
  3.  Studying Worthy Rivals
  4.  Exisential flexibility
  5.  Courage to lead
- A just cause is one which will make us work more, do overtime, make frequent business trips and most of all make us not like but love our job. It is a cause which will live longer than the person/people who thought of it. It should stand the test of time.  It should stand a shift in political ideology, religous beliefs and the next generation. [It should not be rooted in a finite goal. It is not providing the best service or the best value.] It should be
  -- For Something -> It should not be fighting against something, great leaders are able to rally those around them to fight a good fight,  It is not something we oppose. A just goal should affirmative and positive. It should be something we believe in. It should fill the reader with hope and optimism. It should invite everyone to join in the common cause. 
  -- Inclusive -> It should be inclusive to all those who want to join. Humans enjoy being a part of something, especially when it is something which is bigger than them. It should make us clap our hands *together* in joy. The people who the just cause invites don't want to give up they want to continue to get this idealized vision of the future.  
  -- Service Oriented -> It should be something for the primary benefits of the others, not the shareholders or the company. Every company wants to appease to their share holders, but a just goal cannot be one which falls in this cateogary. The Infinite Game is one which is meant to be kept played by others long after the person who thought of the just goal, if the goal's primary beneficiary is gone, there is no reason to play the game and hence it changes from a Infinite Game to a Finite one. 
  -- Resilient -> It should be able to endure political, idealogoical, religous beliefs, future generations etc. A just cause cannot be the products or services which we offer, the products and services are a means to the cause, but not the cause. If they are the cause and a new competitor enters the market with a disrupting product, the cause is gone and again the game turns from A Infinite one to a finite one.  If people see themself in a broader industry which is not that product their cause is able to survive. 
  a glimpse into an idealized vision of the future and if it is attractive enough people will take the steps to achieve it.
- When you get your cause write it down. Put your just cause down into words so that it can effective communicated. It will make people see the clear vision. When you are doing this process also make sure the goal is not vague enough, it does not apply to a lot of other disciplines. If it is vague, then it allows finite---mindedness to slip into the goal, diluting it, eventually leading to a finite future. Putting down your Just cause into proper words which are your own and very specific prevents this and also prevents the focus of your company to move off the course of the just cause. A just cause is not
  -- Moon Shots -> A moon shot is inspired that from the actual moon shot. "A small step for a man, a gian step for mankind". It has all the qualities of a just cause, but it is not that. It is still finite in nature, there is an end goal, and the goal is not just to keep playing. But at the end of the day it is just a BHAG, a big hairy auditous goal. When the goal is reached, another BHAG is chosen, it is again a common mistake and one that leads to the finite game. An infinite game is not a series of finite games, it is a game which is meant to be played forever, it may contain finite games between, but it is not that. 
  -- Being the best -> Being the best is not a just cause. When we make "being the best" a mission statement, it does not guide us really well, it is just that a statement, which might or might not even inspire the employees. It is even applicable to  a lot of industries thereby making it very vague. 
  -- Growth -> Growth is not a just cause. Every company has to grow, even in infinite games growth is present. Growth as a statement does not really paint in our mind what the company is trying to do or what they are. Growth is a means to  playing the infinite game, it is not the infinite game in of itself.
  -- Corporate Social Responsibility -> CSR programs are not a just cause. They do not drive the company itself. They are just a way to give to charity, which does not make it a just cause. A CSR program must be one of the few means or part of advancing a broader strategy of advancing the just cause.
- What we need are more of CVO's (Chief Vision Officer) instead of a CEO. CEO's are a very abstract position. A A Chief Vision Officer on the other hand is not. The job is right there in the naming. It is to provide a vision for the organization, which involves looking into the far and very abstract future. It is also a position which the COO, CFO, CMO or other C suite employees might not be suitable for. They are very important for looking into the business side, helping the CVO advance the vision and are also at the peak of what they do in the company.
- The companies which we have today are not capitalist, they abuse capitalism for their primary net gain, often money. This idea was proposed some 80 years ago that the only objective of a company is to make money, that however is just false. The goal of a company is to keep playing to advance the just cause and  protect the people which it employs, money is a fuel for advancing it.
- It is Wall Street itself which forces companies to play by the finite and short term mindsets. This mindset ironically looks over the infinite mindset and makes the company go bankrupt in the long term.
- In a company people (will) come before money (resources). These are the people which make the company run. In great irony even finite minded leaders see that the people are important but they still don't invest in them, under the guise of "people leave hence it is not important to invest in them".  Another difference is that the finite minded companies put will before resources before the people. People are not able to work their best in a setting where they are seen as disposable and another person might be hired to fill that role.
- Under infinite minded leader ship it is important to build teams where the people trust each other. This is different from people liking their employees or liking their jobs. A team with no trust is no team at all. People will hide their mistakes which can be detrimental to the company as a whole. In a trusting team people feel safe to be vulnerable. They admit their mistakes, provide valuable suggestions and are honest in admitting pifalls in their performance. Trust building can be done by allowing the entire team to sit in a room and start talking about their personal lives, emotions and other things which they experience, related to the job or not. It is important that some member in the team does not abuse the trust.
- The culture in a company is a sum of the values and behaviour of the people who work in the company. We need to build a culture where their is a drive to take care of one another, advance the just cause and serve the community better.  Additionally a leader must have a high level of trust at the very least. A person can be trained to achieve better performance but the latter is not true for trust.
- If we build a toxic culture, where the managers only care about meeting arbitrary goals, details and not about the cause, where the employees will use any means possible to achieve it, at the cost of their own or another colleagues mental and physical health, where the employees are treated as dispensible ethical fading can occur. Ethical fading only starts with a simple wrong doing. But the thing is the wrong doing will be justified or rationalized by the person in one way or the other. The thing is it won't stop at a simple lie, it will be slippery slope leading the people in an organisation to sacrifice everything, commit criminal offences and still rationalize their actions in their own minds.
- A company where the ethics are the standard can lead to a company which is brutally honest with itself and it's consumers. The company won't portray itself as a victim of the system or just "playing according to the system" it will actively go against the system. This is a result of a company whose standards are ethics and which are greater than the law.
- Worthy rivals can lead us down two paths. First one where we get consumed by arbritary metrics or we study them, see why they are so good at what they do and try to learn from them. Even finite minded people can do something can right and be treated as worthy rivals. Learning from our worthy rivals can lead us in a better position than what we were in before, and getting better than what we were before is the essence of the infinite game. Even if we lose our worthy rival, we don't win the game, there is no winning an infinite game, just playing.
- Existential flexibility is what allows an infinite minded leader to stay an infinite minded leader. It is the capacity to initiate an extreme disruption to a business model or strategic course in order to more effectively advance a just cause. It is an infinite minded leader's appreciation for the disruptive which allows them to make these kind of changes. If someone does not respond to the disruptive change, it will leave them worse off at best and bankrupt at worst.
- It takes courage to adopt an infinite mindset and can absolutely make a person loose their job. It is the pressure from Wall Street, Analyst Community or from a private equity or venture capital firm which makes succumbing the the finite mindset the easy and expected choice. It is this reason only why it takes courage to adopt an infinite mindset. The bet way to find this is with a purpose which inspires us aka a just cause. There is no such thing as a perfectly infinite minded leader and there is no such thing as a infinite minded organisation. Even an infinite minded organisation can stray on the finite path, which is why it takes a leader with great courage to get back on course.
- To work to a open infinite mind means having the courage to realise and admit that you are part of the problem. Howerver with that realization comes embarassement, opportunity for improvement and empowerment